Forever webpage there in most cases is always a form that allows us to collect some kind of data whether
you want to use it to sign up for something or whether you just want is personal permission.
His or her you would need to set up the form.
Now how do we set up the form in nature.
As always we're gonna have first of all the form element and now within the form element.
Notice we're going to have the action.
Now I need to tell you right away that whenever we're working with forms and emails yes we will just
gonna be displaying because we're all gonna be working only with a front end.
Now in order to collect the data you would need to work with the backend language like for example BHP.
So in our case this action as well as there's going to be another one that you're going to see a lot
which would be the method is not going to mean anything because again we're not gonna collect the form.
And there's also gonna be few attributes then in our case are not gonna make any kind of changes but
later on as you're working with BHP or JavaScript this will gonna make sense.
Now what we were gonna do later on has been working with CSX project so not nation email project but
since this project we all gonna use the service called Formspring which is for free.
By the way so again don't freak out you're not going to have to pay anything but this service that Formspring
is going to allow us to have our form but the data is gonna be submitted to our email.
So as you see are still using the action and they're still using the method.
And just to quickly go over action basically would mean where this information would be sent and the
method would mean how this information is gonna be processed and with the post request you basically
would be adding information to the server.
Again I digress a little bit but just to give you a general idea now.
Like I said we're going to keep on working with the form.
So the first thing that I would like to look at is the input because that's going to be our most basic
type of form input that more than half is just the general input.
Now with an input you're having multiple types you can have let's say input as an email.
But the most basic one is gonna be text.
So in this case we can just write text and the moment we're gonna press tab or enter we're gonna be
getting this form with let's say Type 1 gets a text which will read the most basic one and we have a
few more actually.
Now again name attribute is gonna be used whenever we are collecting the data because this is something
that's going to be shown again in our case we can write whatever we would like or here and nothing is
going to change.
Now the idea is gonna be used for label which is I'm going to show you in a second but for now let's
say that I would want to save it.
And as you can see right now we're having our first input.
So I can obviously go ahead over here and type whatever it is I would like but nothing has happened
now for every element that we're gonna have in the form meaning the input element.
We also would like to have the submission.
And when I said for every meaning or every form out there you would also want to submit it right.
Otherwise what good does it make if you have the form which you cannot submit it.
Now again I'm going to repeat in our case we're not going to be collecting the data but I would still
like to create a form submit elements because you're going to need them later on anyway.
Now we have two options we can use just a simple button.
So let's say we have the button and within the button we can write type and for the type we would have
to write submit.
Now if you were using the button then obviously we're going to write our values in between the button
element and if I didn't cover before initially met on the button again button would be extremely straightforward.
We just write the name of the element which in our case would be button and then we have multiple types
of button.
So in our case this would be submitted.
So as you can see right now the submit button a show.
Now if you'd like to have some kind of space in between them for now we're going to use the actual line
break later on as we start working with divs we're all gonna see how we can use this using the device.
So at the moment I'm gonna save it.
I'm going to have my input.
I can write whatever I would like to have in my input and I can start clicking submit now for now.
What's happening is the form is being submitted back to the same page again.
This is what happens if we just leave this blank so you can just write some kind of value like on submit
notice we're going to have our name here but again we're not going to work with this right now.
But in general the form is gonna be empty again because we have resubmitted this to the same old page.
Now we also have an option of input of submit.
So not only the button but also input.
So let me first comment this out and that's right that this is going to be input and for the input I
would like to have.
Again the options.
So maybe we can just type the input first and notice if I'm not selecting with Emmett what kind of input
I'm gonna have I'm gonna have the general text but here I'm going to change this and I'm gonna say that
this is not gonna be equal to text give me equal to the submit.
Now the moment we're gonna save it say this we have right now our submit.
Now this is all working great and fine.
However I also would like to see what's happening with the idea now idea is gonna be used for label
now.
So above the input.
That's right that there's gonna be a label element and within the label element we have the attribute
of for now within the four.
This is where we are targeting the 80.
So in our case if we know that the idea eventually is gonna be the name which is gonna be the value
and then the moment I'm gonna have the four attribute I'm gonna have to add the same idea that I have
all the input that I'm targeting and let's say here I'm gonna write first name.
So this would be in my label.
Now what's happening with the label then as I'm clicking on the label noticed right now my input is
gonna be highlighted and if I'm gonna change this if let's say I'm gonna make a mistake and this is
not going to be a name we can click all day long and the label is not going to be highlighted.
So that would be the purpose for the label as well as we have other options.
Let's say we can have the program.
So we don't have to work with label although it most cases it does make sense if we're actually implementing
the label whenever we're working with input.
So now let's look at other options that we have for the input.
And again we're not going to cover all of them but let's look at more popular ones which would be password
and email.
So again the same old deal we can write input first of all and then for input we can either use the
element where we have just the colon and then we're picking more or we can just have the general input
type and then change it.
So in our case let's write that we would be looking for the password and again and we can write the
name or we can have two options.
So in this case since we're not gonna be using the name attribute anyway we're not going to be collecting
the data maybe let's write above the input that there's going to be paragraph and let's write password.
So again we're not limited to just using the label we can just use the simple paragraph and we're still
going to have the input now maybe to have it displayed a little bit better.
Let's add the line break first.
So this is gonna be our submit and then what we're gonna have within the power password.
Now we have two options.
We can either write a placeholder so let's write a password and the place holder is basically going
to be displayed just to give you a general idea of what the user should be typing.
However at the moment I'm going to start typing notice first of all the password or the place holder
is gonna disappear as well as with a type of password in for our inputs are gonna be hidden.
So there is gonna be just these little bulletin points.
Now I also have an option of the value.
So the value attribute all the input and to show you how the value attribute works again let's create
a new input for this.
We're gonna write first all line Lindberg and in between these two line breaks let's create the input
with an email and maybe in this case let's use the semicolon or I'm sorry colon and let's say that we're
going to be looking for the input that email again name doesn't really matter for us ideas well if we're
really not using the label and also need to let you know that not only for the label we can use the
ADA that's how it can be used whenever we're working with JavaScript.
That's also another option.
But again I digress a little bit.
And within the input type of e-mail we all gonna have to submit the correct e-mail.
Meaning there has to be an ad site.
So if I'm gonna try to submit something that doesn't make sense.
So let's read maybe e-mail.
Uh I don't know.
Email e-mail e-mail then as I'm gonna be clicking submit.
Notice there's just gonna be a little bit of uh H2 email validation or it is gonna say well you cannot
submit because there is at missing the ad symbol is missing in your input type of e-mail.
So if we're gonna write something like some gibberish like email uh at email there could be an option
so let's say the email or email.
Again this is not going to validate the actual correct email but we will gonna be able to spend right
now because we did add this at symbol and last.
Within just simple input types I would like to point you to the value.
So the value attribute is gonna allow us to hard code something and that in most cases you would use
something like this whenever you would like to have some kind of data already.
So let's say you're editing something.
So there has to be some kind of data that's already being passed on.
So let's say in here I could write email at email dot com or something like us whatever we would like
here wherever we would like to write here within this valley.
And sure enough right now I have already hard coded data.
Now the difference between the place holder and hardcoded data that the moment you start working with
the place holder the place holder is going to disappear with the hard coded data.
This is already going to stay.
So with the value the value is going to be actually displayed now where we could use the value.
Well as you can see here we have the input type and type was submit.
But what if I would like to change the tax because by default we're having this summit.
So here I can just say value and let's say submit please again whatever we would like to write over
here.
It doesn't really matter at the moment we're gonna save it.
Obviously I'm gonna be having the submit please.
So these would be the basics of how we can work with input types.
And again we would first need to have some kind of type.
And the most simple one was gonna be text.
Then we're gonna have usually name attribute which we will use only when we are submitting the data.
So whenever we're collecting the data and then we have an option for the I.D. attribute the attribute
we can use with the label or if we're gonna be working with the javascript then for the label it will
allow us to click on the label and if the ideas match with the four attributes then they form is gonna
be highlighted with a password.
We're going to have our both points so the passport is going to be hidden for the place holder.
No information is going to be before the user types anything but the moment you start typing.
Obviously the place holder is going to disappear.
Now the value is going to give us the hard coded values whenever any form is shown right away.
So I can obviously submit this also with hard coded data but it's still going to show up right away
because I still have my value and we have two types of options of how we can submit the data whether
that would be the input with the type of input as well as just a button with a type of submit button.